+++
date = "2011-01-28T13:50:00+00:00"
draft = false
title = "Friday"
+++
<p>We sat down on the oval and unwrapped our greasy crap from its waxed paper. Vanessa started smoking, holding her burger and one hand, a cigarette in the other. The sun had begun setting over the engineering block, throwing great black and orange poles over the campus, and the emergent dusk summoned a small, chilly breeze. Ness stared off into the distance, concentrating on the nicotene and the fats mingling mingling in her blood. A sports team doing laps jogged past, trying their best not to regard our delicious filth.  We sat there for a while, watching the athletes warm down, pack up their things and then leave altogether. It became cold very quickly, but we sat on and I stole a couple of Ness's smokes.</p>&#13;
<p>"Dave says they're having problems up north," Ness mindlessly flashed the torch built into her lighter, illuminating the grass. I swore I was able to see the ants under the growth. "Apparently they're winding everything down."</p>&#13;
<p>Embers near my mouth, Vanessa could see I was furrowing my brow.</p>&#13;
<p>"He says almost all the bauxite's gone. Iron's starting to get harder to find, too."</p>&#13;
<p>"But there's shitloads of iron and bauxite up there."</p>&#13;
<p>"That's what he thought. All the deposits are getting further and further away from the rails, way out into the desert. It's cheaper for the Chinese to mine everything themselves, no-one's interested in making roads that go nowhere."</p>&#13;
<p>"But none of this is in the news."</p>&#13;
<p>Ness erupted into a raspy smoker's laugh, "could you imagine if it was?"</p>&#13;
<p>continued</p> 
