---
title: "To Be A Sage"
date: 2020-03-31T11:15:00Z
draft: false
---

it seems i have all the earthly possessions i consciously believe i need right 
now

..............................

what is this feeling

this can't be right

i need a void inside myself to fill with meaningless things made of plastic and 
semiconductors

what is my life now

am i a sage? have i achieved enlightenment?

...

yes. yes i think i am a sage now

***

hmm am i a guru or a sage?


### definition of a sage:

A sage (Ancient Greek: σοφός, sophos), in classical philosophy, is someone who 
has attained wisdom. The term has also been used interchangeably with a ‘good 
person’ (Ancient Greek: ἀγαθός, agathos), and a ‘virtuous person’ (Ancient 
Greek: σπουδαῖος, spoudaios). Among the earliest accounts of the sage begin with 
Empedocles’ Sphairos. Horace describes the Sphairos as “Completely within 
itself, well-rounded and spherical, so that nothing extraneous can adhere to it, 
because of its smooth and polished surface.”[1] Alternatively, the sage is one 
who lives “according to an ideal which transcends the everyday.”[2]


### definition of a guru:

Guru (/ˈɡuːruː/, UK also /ˈɡʊruː, ˈɡʊər-/; Sanskrit: गुरु, IAST: guru) is a 
Sanskrit term for a “teacher, guide, expert, or master” of certain knowledge or 
field.[1] In pan-Indian traditions, guru is more than a teacher, in Sanskrit 
guru means the one who dispels the darkness and takes towards light, 
traditionally a reverential figure to the student, with the guru serving as a 
“counselor, who helps mold values, shares experiential knowledge as much as 
literal knowledge, an exemplar in life, an inspirational source and who helps in 
the spiritual evolution of a student”.[2] A guru is also one’s spiritual guide, 
who helps one to discover the same potentialities that the guru has already 
realized.[3]
discussion

hmm… i think the spherical thing works best for me, and i am indeed a sage. the 
polished surface is particularly on point.

also i have an objection to molding objects or things, and i think i am 
definitely not a guide to follow, so i think being a guru is out of the 
question.

well. shit. i have entered the stage of being of sagehood. fucking weird.
