---
title: "Fallout 4"
date: 2020-03-20T00:50:12Z
draft: false
---

Fallout 4 - I am ready to admit it, it is my favourite video game right now
I am continuing to play lots of Fallout 4, and program my Tamagotchi game

I am normally quite a socially isolated person, it seems, I mean I have lots of 
friends, but I am normally by myself for long stretches of time, on my computer

I should take you all on a tour of my biggest commune, where I am setting up a 
big cooperative farm, with lots of water purification

I am hoping to start expanding a lot of other communes - I feel that I will be 
able to collect more aluminium and other precious scrap that I need in order to 
keep upgrading all my gear

The way I play Fallout 4, at least, is that I spend a lot of time crafting. I 
usually buy loads and loads of scrap by selling my produce and purified water - 
I have found that melons and gourds are usually worth quite a bit compared to 
how much they weigh, and by how quickly they can be harvested

You can obtain oil for important upgrades through making cutting fluid at the 
chemistry station, and you can produce plentiful amounts of adhesive through 
making vegetable starch at a cooking station

What else? Currently I have issues getting aluminium, which I need to make 
robots and repair my power armour.

I think I may spend some time modding the game because I think having better 
conversation may help make my experience a lot better. I think what I like best 
about the game is that it rewards you for being inquisitive and experimenting 
with different approaches.

By the way, the game is very playable on low end graphics cards, my RX 550 only 
drops below 30 frames per second in weird scenarios that my XBONE would also. 
Besides, I am playing with the high resolution textures as well.

I know this was a massive AAA title in 2015, but I think it is now very 
underrated, and you can pick it up very cheaply with all the DLC, which confuses 
me, but also fills me with a lot of delight.

I think another mod I might make would be to make the trading at stores a lot 
more fruitful - I think I would also modify the menus to allow you to equip 
items or scrap them while simultaneously trading - it is onerous to have to 
trade, go into your inventory, then fiddle, then trade again, and repeat.

The game of course has massive bugs and terrible difficulty curves at times - I 
may have been blown up immediately after fast traveling perhaps 30 times now. I 
can also tell the NPC intelligence automation scales difficulty by having 
enemies 'cheat' by being able to see you through walls, and never running out of 
ammo. Example: super mutants with missile launchers that fire the split second 
they have a line of sight to you.
Another big problem with the game is that you really must be quick saving 
manually over and over, else you will lose almost an hour of progress sometimes. 
A more intelligent and aggressive quick saving monitor would make everyone's 
life a lot easier.

The keyboard bindings for changing weapons? Probably my least favourite aspect 
of the game. It makes EMACS seem like child's play.

A really awesome aspect of the game is that bosses and legendary difficulty 
enemies are absolutely down right fearsome. I hate hate hate going up against a 
sentry bot, or mirelurk queen, but not a death law, because there is simply no 
running away once you have engaged them - you are quite literally fucked if you 
cannot defeat these powerful enemies.

What keeps me playing this game over and over, 5 years after I first got it at 
launch? The crafting. I love gathering resources and creating new items. I love 
making big farms and attracting new members to my communes.

I wish I knew of a game which did this as well as Fallout 4 - maybe Borderlands? 
No crafting. Action based RPG with loads of radiant quests and crafting is my 
jam.

I wanna make my perfect version of Fallout 4 somehow...
