---
title: "The Standardisation and Homogenisation of Computing"
date: 2019-12-27T07:46:05Z
draft: false
---

you know what is the worst thing about computing today? what has been
developing this whole time since the application of the mass market of
computers?

the standardisation, dumbing down, and loss of control of the
experience you have on a computer

it didn't have to be like this for people who use proprietary
operating systems, that majority of people using computer terminals

we could all have been using our computers in radically different ways
right now, a true cyberpunk, completely conceptually different
computers - if we chose screens, they would look utterly different to
some people

we have some of that in UNIX land, but it has faded. it hasn't been
stamped out like in the wastelnds of Microsoft, Google and Apple

--

the home land of this 13th century journeyman, or theologian, is the
land of UNIX, where our peasant republic has corrupted slightly over
time

i come bearing the treatise of symbolic computation, by citizen
touretzky, and the propadeutic of MINICKS, of the learned tanenbaum.

i am wading my way to the city, having always lived in the hills.

i am moving through different treacherous, wild areas.

through the scum and villainy.

truth be told, i have never truly studied UNIX, i merely grew up with
the philosophical methods, and was merely unwittingly adept.

i will truly grasp this philosophy, of which wise people in my commune
spoke, and i have been introduced to the Pleromannes of the Federated
Cosmos, and whereupon passed into the hospitality of the bearers of
the treatise mentioned.

I once met a strange bard. I asked him, "what are you doing?"

He sighed: "Uh... trudging. You know, trudging? [pause] To trudge: the
slow, weary, depressing yet determined walk of a man who has nothing
left in life except the impulse to simply soldier on."

I am entering the foothills of the Oracle of MINICKS. Wish me well. I
carry my letter of recommendation.
