---
title: "LISP: The Communist Programming Language"
date: 2020-02-26T02:28:10Z
draft: false
---

I think I've entered a phase in my life where I am focusing more on tech and 
programming instead of writing and evangelising philosophy and libertarian 
communism.

That doesn't mean that I have given up my political commitments, but it does 
make me a little sad that I'm not more of an activist.

Maybe it's because I am firm in my convictions now. I suppose a lot of my 
writing and talking about philosophy was because I was uncertain and still 
exploring the topic, and now I don't feel the need to ask as many questions as 
before.

I think maybe it's also because I feel like revolution is going to be further 
away than I realised, and I am a little less optimistic about things kicking off 
sometime soon.

Also... philosophy is really arcane and quite atavistic. My philosophical 
'career' was marked by a lot of betrayal and dismissal, and I turned away from 
it because I could not find enough people with whom I could commune and struggle 
alongside.

It seems like the LISP community is kind of kicking off, though. Every day I 
discover new people and new projects, and even when it comes to just new 
operating systems written in rust it seems like there is a lot of fervent 
activity in programming.

People seem excited about what they're doing, and they seem to believe in 
something bigger than UNIX. The free software community is so much more vibrant 
and supportive than the political and philosophical ones.

Is it because of VC and funding? Maybe it is. There sure as hell isn't a 
connection to the means of production with philosophy nowadays, like there was 
in the 20th century.

I don't know what to think. I do believe deep down that functional programming 
is inherently communist. I don't know why, but when I study LISP, I see a 
complete disregard for number crunching for the purpose of maximising capitalist 
profit. I know this hasn't always been the case, but I see something there.

I think it is probably because symbolic computation is fundamentally concerned 
with language. There /is / liberation for humans and sentient beings with this 
kind of computing. The more we are able to grasp the structure of our world and 
our consciousness, I think the more we will be able to use LISP as a weapon in 
the struggle for communism.

I think we are having a renaissance in computing. Pleroma and the fediverse are 
proof of this.

What can I make of this? I have absolutely no idea at the moment.
