---
title: "What the Empirical Evidence Says About Nuclear 'Deterrence'"
date: 2020-03-07T07:59:40Z
draft: false
---

Rational deterrence theory developed alongside the advent of nuclear
weapons. The intersection of the two events yielded the concept of
‘nuclear deterrence’, an idea that has become popular. It asserts that
a real or perceived threat of catastrophic nuclear attack from one
state to another allows that first state to deter the second from
certain causes of action, namely military confrontations. An extended
version of this idea holds that the world is now somehow more peaceful
as a result of interlocking looming threats of nuclear attack.

Nuclear deterrence is largely a deductive theory, and has been
criticised for, among other things, being ahistorical and lacking in
empirical validity. Deterrence proponents have responded by saying
that empirical deterrence scholarship such as comparative case studies
have failed to persuasively challenge the assumptions behind the
theory (Achen & Snidal 1989). This paper will argue that the empirical
work that has been done on deterrence theory, criticising its
assumptions and conclusions, is largely correct. In particular it will
be argued that the conceptual and methodological limitations of the
empirical criticisms of nuclear deterrence theory are not too great to
be overcome—that is, that it is perfectly valid to build social
scientific theories and concepts from empirical observation.

# I - Description of The Idea of Nuclear Deterrence

Nuclear deterrence will be described before discussing the validity of
the various empirical criticisms that have been levelled against
it. The reason why it must be described is because its use has entered
common parlance, and as such has suffered from great variation and
diffusion in meaning. A fairly rigorous approximation of nuclear
deterrence will be set out in order to provide some terms of
reference, so that the deterrence criticisms coming later will fit
into some form of coherent dialogue.

Nuclear deterrence proceeds from rational choice analyses. When
nuclear deterrence is invoked, the following assumptions are usually
implicit:

1. Rational actor assumption. Actors have exogenously given
   preferences and choice options, and they seek to optimise
   preferences in light of other actors’ preferences and options.
   	
2. Principle explanatory assumption. Variation in outcomes is to be
	explained by differences in actors’ opportunities. (Appeals to
	exogenous changes in preferences, or to norms, roles, or culture,
	are temporarily or analytically suspended.)
		
3. Principle substantive assumption. The state acts as if it were a
   unitary rational actor. (Changes in personnel, in decision-making
   patterns, or in bureaucratic politics are not the explanatory focus
   (Achen & Snidal 1989, p. 150).
   
It follows that a relationship of deterrence is established when a
threat of retaliatory nuclear attack from one state alters the
preference optimisation calculus of another that is attempting to
alter the balance of power in a system. The relationship of deterrence
is meant to be established in the following manner. Let us say that
there are two states in a system and a state of affairs between them
such that there is a stable power ‘status quo’ in the system before
any kind of relationship of deterrence comes into being. One state is
a defender of the status quo, and the other is an initiator of change
of power relations. Pursuant to the assumptions above, both states
exist in competition and seek to better their position in the
system. Both states perform a calculation of the best decisions to
make at any particular time, and let us say that, given the initiator
is savvy to the preferences and options of the defender (this is
important, preferences being close to ‘desires’ and options being
close to real courses of action related to capabilities), it has the
preference to attack the defender and alter the status quo. Whether or
not it acts on that preference is based on a calculation that involves
weighing up the costs and benefits of making that act. One of the
costs involved in attacking the defending state is the future threat
of it making a retaliatory attack, as ‘punishment’. If the cost of a
retaliatory attack from a defending state is too great, an initiator
will be deterred from challenging the status quo. Hence a relationship
of deterrence is obtained.

## A - Credibility

The problem-solving capacity of deterrence theory concerns the process
by which a defending state actively and purposively influences the
cost/benefit calculation of an initiator’s decision to attack and
change the status quo. The focus which most have placed on the ability
of deterrence theory to solve security problems comes from the fact
that a significant portion of the initiator’s cost/benefit calculation
revolves around an indeterminacy, something that the initiator cannot
work out with certainty. Relaxing the assumption above that the
initiator is fully aware of preferences and options of the defender,
the analyst encounters the problem that initiator cannot know for sure
whether the defender will have the ability and commitment to fight
back after an attack (Achen & Snidal 1989, p. 151). 

The concept that is used to measure the probability by which an
initiator estimates the cost of a defender’s ability and commitment to
have a war or some other kind of conflict over the alteration of the
status quo is called deterrence credibility. Working backwards in the
initiator’s decision-making process, suppose that a defender’s threat
to retaliate is credible. This means that the initiator believes that
the defender has the option to retaliate (not just the desire, but the
capacity exists: the defender has the military means to retaliate
after an attack and is politically free to do so), and that the
defender would find retaliation in its interest if the prize is
threatened. Then, if the threatened retaliatory punishment from the
defender exceeds the gains of the initiator from attacking, the
initiator will believe the attack will make it worse off than by
practicing restraint, and will be deterrable, or deterred from
attacking.

## B - Reassurance
By dint of history there is a corresponding nuclear deterrence concept
which is related to nuclear deterrence credibility but is somewhat
different. The concept is called nuclear deterrence stability, and it
comes from extending the idea of credibility by replacing the system
of one initiator and one defender with one which features two actors
that are simultaneous initiators and defenders. Because both actors
exist in the same competitive environment as the credibility model,
where both actors are seeking to satisfy their preferences as much as
possible, and both powers have nuclear weapons, there exists the risk
that one actor may pre-empt the other’s nuclear deterrence threats,
and totally wipe it out, yielding a zero-sum win for the pre-empting
actor. Stability is, in this context, a very narrow indicator. It is
meant to measure the ‘second strike’ (or ‘strike second’) nuclear
capacity of either actor in this system. If both actors have a second
strike capacity, they still have the capacity to form the option of a
credible deterrence threat after they have been attacked with a
nuclear arsenal. The trouble with this—and this introduces some
impurities into the rational choice description of nuclear
deterrence—is that there is always the incentive for both actors
strive to build nuclear weapons systems that deprive their competitor
of a second strike capacity, eradicating the effect of nuclear
deterrence entirely. Here the indeterminacy problem of deterrence
credibility becomes transmuted into nuclear reassurance. Instead of
there being some uncertainty to be explained as to the desire and
capacity of a state to attack for the purpose of deterrence, the
problem-solving function of the rational choice schema is set towards
working out whether either actor believes that its competitor won’t
attack. The active and purposive component of reassurance is that,
instead of issuing threats, each side seeks to reassure the other that
it won’t commit to plans that will see the other side wiped out,
destroying the effectiveness of its deterrence. Reassurance is more or
less the same as deterrence credibility because a state protects its
own deterrence credibility by promising not to harm its competitor’s
credibility.

Deterrence and reassurance here turn on the credibility of a
retaliatory attack by a defender which alters the cost/benefit
calculation of the initiator. It is important to note that credibility
turns correspondingly on the perception either generated passively or
created actively (and there is some controversy here to be sure)
inside the initiator about (a) the nature of the defender, and (b) the
defender’s interests and intentions. It should be noted that the
empirical literature has much to say about this. For the sake of the
current discussion however, it is important to point out how nuclear
deterrence theory gets around the perception issues inherent in its
operation. The way it gets around the issue of how a defender changes
the behaviour of an initiator is that it tightly controls how either
actor thinks. First, as per the first assumption above, it makes state
preferences (the things they desire) exogenous to the rational choice
games through which it puts them. This means that the things that
states want are assumed beforehand, and held constant so that games
can be constructed in a sensible manner. Second, it makes sure that
the behaviour that states exhibit is related to the choice of those
assumed preferences, and not anything else. Forces such as mistakes,
the role of communication and language, or complex cognitive processes
are not the explanatory focus of the theory.

The reason why it is important to point out the way in which nuclear
deterrence theory gets around the problems of state communication and
interaction is that many of the empirical studies on nuclear
deterrence have raised questions about the validity of these rational
choice assumptions. The big problem with the empirical criticisms of
nuclear deterrence theory, however, is that they proceed from a very
different conceptual and methodological paradigm than that of rational
choice analyses. The fundamental difference between nuclear deterrence
theory and the empirical work that has been done on it is the order in
which theory and evidence is used. This has a real effect on the
empirical approach’s ability to verify the descriptive and
prescriptive claims that nuclear deterrence theory makes. Whereas
nuclear deterrence theory is deductive, which abstracts from reality
for the purpose of building a theory which is meant to be conceptually
coherent and simple in its explanatory import, empirical attempts to
engage with deterrence are inductive: observations come first, and
typologies and generalisations come second. Methodologically speaking,
nuclear deterrence advocates are probably less concerned with
individual case explanations than analysts who are attempting to
empirically verify the theory. This is significant because the only
way that an empirical study of the validity of nuclear deterrence can
proceed is by conducting case studies. For instance Achen & Snidal’s
complaint that empirical case studies don’t really address the
concerns behind the method of deductive theories:

> [f]or theoretical purposes, the difficulty with explaining
> individual cases is that there are so many details in every case
> that no single theory can reproduce them all, and some evidence can
> be found for too wide an array of variables and propositions (Achen
> & Snidal 1989, p. 157).

While this is probably an overstatement of the limits of conducting
case studies, there are indeed difficulties with making
generalisations with an empirical inquiry when looking at such a
deductive and conceptually ‘pure’ theory such as nuclear
deterrence. As Jervis (1989, p. 195) notes, when conducting empirical
studies,

>[i]diosyncrasies are many and powerful; similar outcomes can be
>reached by many different paths and apparently similar initial
>conditions do not always yield the same results. Partly for this
>reason and partly because of the limitations of existing research,
>what we have no is more a list than a tight theory.

So there is a real divide between the conceptual and methodological
fundamentals of deductive and inductive theories. The typologies
between empirical case studies of nuclear deterrence theory can be
incredibly fluid and varied, and may not rigorously address every
facet of the single deductive theory to which they might be aimed. But
the disadvantages outlined above should come with a
qualification. What we know from the evidence on nuclear deterrence 

> is not without structure and coherence. Many of the generalisations
> produced by the case studies are linked; the inferred processes can
> generate additional propositions; and the arguments apply to a wide
> range of problems in addition to deterrence and deterrence failures
> (Jervis 1989, p. 196).

It is important to discuss all this because treating the empirical
criticisms of nuclear deterrence theory as if they apply directly to
nuclear deterrence’s own analytical focus only tells half the
story. As will be shown below, the evidence on nuclear deterrence
takes issue with the way states interact and communicate to be sure,
but it doesn’t do so in a way that starts from the same first
principles as rational deterrence theory. The evidence proceeds in a
way that holds a lot of other things constant, and not just the
assumptions behind nuclear deterrence. For instance, the evidence
might investigate the possibility of preference endogeneity with
respect to deterrence, but in a way that sees states as the product of
bureaucratic and not unitary decision-making processes. Despite the
piecemeal and highly qualified progress of empirical work of nuclear
deterrence, it should be seen as valid. The validity comes from its
ability to make coherent and persuasive generalisations that have
strong and convincing prescriptive and descriptive power.

# II - Empirical Findings

Jervis (1979) provides a concrete summary of what the case study
literature finds about the ‘reality’ of nuclear deterrence. The
findings fall under several headings (or ‘themes’) and these are: (a)
the reality of state risk-taking behaviour; (b) the role of rewards
and concessions in deterrence; (c) mistakes, and the things that can
go wrong; (d) the limitations of state information-processing and
cognition; and (e) the nature of state interests and commitments—that
is, the costs that states impose on themselves for the purpose of
bringing about nuclear deterrence.

## A - Risk-taking

The first of these themes, risk-taking, is relatively straightforward,
and it relates to the ‘brinkmanship’ aspect of nuclear
deterrence. Nuclear deterrence theory points towards the use of
‘credible threats of force’—a willingness and capacity to deploy
threats of force in order to deter— that are meant to alter the
cost/benefit analysis of an initiator’s thinking when that initiator
wants to change the status quo power relations. What the empirical
evidence says about this process is that states and state elites of a
‘defending’ state are often far more prudent and risk-averse than
nuclear deterrence theory would have one believe. States are very
often wary of foreclosing the policy options that they have available
to them, reducing possible courses of action down to one single
choice. The cognitive and information-processing aspect of this
preference-selection phenomenon will obviously discussed later, but it
is significant to note that the rational calculation aspect of nuclear
deterrence suggests that defending state elites should have no trouble
issuing grave threats and managing an incredibly risky relationship
with an initiator, when in reality this does not seem to be the case
at all. What the evidence suggests is that defending and initiating
state elites bargain with each other: defending state elites prefer to
‘trade an increment in their chance of prevailing for an increment in
the chances of maintaining peace’ (Jervis 1979, p. 303).

Furthermore, there appear to be different risk-management behaviours
for different kinds of defenders and initiators. If the above were
taken to be a general rule, it would seem that states care less about
long-run strategic considerations than one would expect. This is not
the case. When it comes to great power (say USA versus USSR)
deterrence interactions, long-run considerations feature much more
prominently in state decision-making. This means that either side is
much more likely to retreat and give concessions instead of issuing
new threats. This evidence contradicts nuclear deterrence theory in
two ways: first, not all defenders and initiators are the same, and in
certain cases, defenders will more than not opt to retreat, trusting
initiators to not exploit their concessions.

## B - Rewards

The second theme looks at the role of rewards, instead of threats and
disincentives, in a relationship of nuclear deterrence. The evidence
on this category refers to the way the defender’s communication with
the initiator is meant to change that initiator’s cost/benefit
calculation when it wants to attack. What nuclear deterrence theory
says about the deterrence relationship is that an initiator’s decision
calculus is geared in such a way that only threats of violence from a
status quo defender will influence its operation, and cause it to back
down. What the evidence says on this matter is that threats of
disincentives do not necessarily, or even in most cases, alter an
initiator’s decision calculus in a manner that establishes a
relationship of deterrence. It may be that a state has no other
option—or thinks it has no other option—but to be bellicose, and
threats of nuclear violence might only steel its resolve. In instances
where things are no so dire, threats of nuclear violence risk
‘humiliating’ an initiator state; on this point the evidence suggests
that frequently it is hard for a state to admit total defeat. Threats
of nuclear force may in these circumstances cause initiator feelings
of resentment, and may make deterrence far more difficult in the
future if not couples with some kind of reward or concession—that is
if total deterrence is possible at all.

## C - Mistakes and Things That Can Go Wrong

This third theme is a very substantive one, and deals directly with
the ‘perception issue’ inherent in nuclear deterrence’s rational
choice paradigm. Mistakes, and things that can go wrong when
attempting to purposively create a relationship of deterrence fall
under another four headings. Deterrence may fail where it is supposed
to succeed because the defender: (i) may fail to understand the
other’s values; (ii) may misunderstand the way the initiator sees the
world; (iii) may have incorrect beliefs about the initiator’s strength
and options; and (iv) may face  extreme difficulty in correctly
determining the initiator’s basic intentions.

Each of these four mistakes in judgment on the part of the defender
speaks to the second assumption behind rational deterrence
theory. This assumption causes states behaviour to be explained
through their ‘opportunities’ only—that is, the opportunity that they
have to act on their exogenously given preferences—and not anything
else. Not only does this radically simplify the kinds of behaviours
states can have, but it also says something about the way states are
meant to detect and interpret the behaviours of their counterparts (or
‘competitors’). If the behaviour of states is meant to be tightly
linked to their preferences, per a rational choice paradigm, a
defending state should be able to safely estimate the preferences of
an initiator by looking at its behaviour. However all four of these
different types of mistakes and errors in judgment found in the
empirical evidence suggest the opposite. They suggest that in
practice, states have a very difficult time divining the desires and
capabilities of their counterparts. 

The explanation in the empirical literature for these difficulties
usually falls within a different analytical paradigm. For instance,
Jervis (1982) stresses the role of the concept of perceptions in
explaining the difficulties states seem to have in correctly working
out information about other states. Perceptions represent a
significant increase in complexity over exogenous preferences and
behaviour in terms of opportunity, because it adds an extra layer of
cognitive grey matter over state interaction. Perceptions depend on
the attitudes and values of the state that is doing the perceiving,
and so when interacting with other states, the perceiving state is
heavily conditioned by its own conscious and unconscious psychological
elements. This says something about the way states perform their
supposed rational calculation under rational choice analyses—this will
be discussed next.

## D - Information processing and Cognition
The fourth theme is not directly related to the three assumptions
outlined above, but nonetheless relates to them closely. Nuclear
deterrence theory asserts that states should be able to perform a
careful and precise rational appraisal of the costs and benefits of
choices when considering bringing about, or reacting to relationships
of deterrence. Typically, there should be very few limits in making
mistakes or errors of judgment when calculating the kinds of choices
involved in executing or reacting to a relationship of
deterrence. Note that this is different from the heading above. The
theme above describes the errors states makes about their
counterparts, this theme covers the expectations that states have
about the probabilities of certain things occurring in general.

The Jervis outlines three errors in rationality that states exhibit in
practice (Jervis 1979, pp. 310-311). The first of these is that states
usually focus on the payoffs involved in the decision-making process,
rather than what should be their true focus of calculation: changes in
event probabilities. The second is very straight forward, and that is
that there is evidence to indicate that even if states have a firm
grasp of the probabilities involved in attempting to engineer a
relationship of deterrence, they don’t calculate as precisely as they
should. The third impairment of rationality is that states, even when
they have good estimates of event probabilities, fail to make proper
explicit value trade-offs.

Each of these three errors in cognition are again related to the first
assumption behind rational deterrence theory, that of preference
exogeneity. The theory assumes that states rank and order preferences
in a systematic and unbiased manner. What the evidences suggests about
state rationality is that states don’t seem to draw up and scrutinise
policy preferences in such a clear and ordered manner. Some
preferences are more valued than others for cognitive, yet—if one was
talking in a strict sense—irrational reasons, whereas others may not
suffer from being under- or over-valued, but may not be compared and
analysed properly.

## E - State Interests and Commitments

The fifth and final theme that Jervis describes as emerging from the
body of empirical literature about nuclear deterrence is that of the
nature of state interests and commitments when attempting to establish
a relationship of deterrence. Very briefly, this theme looks at the
way states formulate their perceptions of the costs and benefits that
are involved in establishing a relationship of nuclear deterrence, be
they defender or initiator. The empirical literature suggests that
there exist two factors that influence state rationality when they
deal with nuclear deterrence relationships, and these are either (i) a
state’s interest in something; or (ii) a state’s commitment with
respect to something. What is important about these two factors is
that they are measures of costs and benefits that states self-impose
upon themselves. This is of course against the grain when it comes to
the precepts of rational deterrence theory, which, again, returning to
the matter of preference exogeneity, says that states consider all
options equally and without bias.

# III - Conclusion

This paper has made a very brief effort at outlining the operation of
rational deterrence theory, one of the many bases that exist for
substantiating nuclear deterrence theories, and in turn relating
rational deterrence theory to the criticisms that have been made of it
in empirical literature. The paper’s attention has chiefly been
concerned with Robert Jervis’s summary of the empirical work that has
been done on rational deterrence theory.

3 923.

Bibliography

Achen, CH & Snidal, D 1989, 'Rational Deterrence Theory and
Comparative Case Studies', World Politics, vol 41, no. 2, pp. 143-169.

Jervis, R 1979, 'Deterrence Theory Revisited', World Politics, vol 31,
no. 2, pp. 289-324.

Jervis, R 1982, 'Deterrence and Perception', International Security,
vol 7, no. 3, pp. 3-30.

Jervis, R 1989, 'Rational Deterrence: Theory and Evidence', World
Politics, vol 41, no. 2, pp. 183-207.

MccGwire, M 1986, 'Deterrence: the problem--not the solution',
International Affairs, pp. 55-70.

MccGwire, M 1994, 'Is There a Future for Nuclear Weapons?',
International Affairs, vol 70, no. 2, pp. 211-228.

MccGwire, M 2006, 'Appendix 2: Nuclear deterrence', International
Affairs, vol 82, no. 4, pp. 771-784.

Ritchie, N 2009, 'Deterrence dogma? Challenging the relevance of
British nuclear weapons', International Affairs, vol 85, no. 1,
pp. 81-98.



