---
title: "Proposal for a New Operating System Philosophy"
date: 2020-01-05T13:14:43Z
draft: false
---

((this is a partially formed idea.))

## an outline for a different operating system paradigm, similar to the CLOSOS 
white paper (http://metamodular.com/lispos.pdf)

> must not be programmed in an imperative language paradigm

elaboration: C, C++, Java, Python, are not permitted. i believe imperative 
languages are derived substandard and obsolete model of computer science

perhaps this is too harsh, but i even look upon Pascal, Ada, and descendants of 
ALGOL, or anything to which Djiskra is adjacent to be founded on completely 
muddled and unparsimonious ideas

> must not be targeted to run natively on x86/amd64 systems

elaboration: frankly, i do not care if this means no-one ever ends up using this 
operating system, and it never achieves a great degree of use. if you want to 
use this operating system, you cannot be using hardware which is Intel, 
Microsoft, or IBM adjacent

> the operating system must be developed simultaneously with the creation of a 
modern LISP machine processor

elaboration: be this an ISA or otherwise, we must break hardware which is 
designed to run imperative code, or is related to the old PDP-11 hardware 
paradigm. i personally do not care if the ISA is CISC or RISC.

> the ecosystem cannot be designed around the C/x86 concept of 'computing 
performance'

elaboration: the concept of computing power has nothing to do with the amount of 
instructions per second, or how long it takes to perform a specific project or 
process. this project will not measure its success against the criterion that it 
must compute as fast as possible.

the consequence of this deliberate rejection of calculation speed means this 
operating system and hardware ecosystem will be orders of magnitude more 
powerful than the C and x86 ecosystem, and no-one from that school of philosophy 
will have even the slightest conception of how this is possible

> the CLOSOS conception of a REPL-based human-computer interface must be adopted

elaboration: the operating system must not be designed around the concept of a 
'kernel'. the epoch of operating systems having kernels is a dark age, whether 
they be monolithic or exo-kernels

the functional programming paradigm of, say, LISP, which allows one to modify 
the operating system in real time, with instantaneous results, with no 
rebooting, restarting, recompilation--in short, any kind of system 
suspension--must be adopted

> any politics, culture, and philosophy of computing which privileges natural 
science and mathematics over the humanities is toxic chauvinism and is to be 
condemned

corollary: any philosophy of sentience and consciousness which privileges or 
eliminates rationalism, non-reductive forms of materialism (epicurianism, 
lucretianism) and even idealism (like hegel, kant even berkeley) in favour of 
democritean reductive or eliminativist materialism such as physicalism, or 
mechanistic conceptions of evolutionary biology, are toxic chauvinism and are to 
be excluded from the project

> the project will exclude itself from any relationship to capitalism and 
imperialism

i'm not sure how to put this, but we will not end up like Linus Torvalds, Moxie 
Marlinspike, etc - no-one on this project will ever work for any firm of the 
military-ideological-industrial complex ever. no-one will go work at Google, 
Twitter, Facebook, IBM, Xerox, any office of any political state. none of the 
ideas we use will be implemented willingly for capitalist industry

;; i am running out of characters, so i will be brief:

> this project will be concerned with making itself aware of, and explaining how 
its participants are sheltered and fed

> there will be no distinction between people who produce code, and people who 
document. people who do not comment their code exhaustively (some call it 
'literate' coding) will be required to explain why they have not included a 
satisfactory amount of comments

> the operating system will integrate the concepts of hypertext and hypermedia 
into the intrinsic fabric of the system - perhaps this will be a focus of the 
hardware of the LISP machine processing transistors

> support for and compatibility with HTTP and TCP/IP will eventually be phased 
out

> there will be absolutely no support for client-side execution of code in this 
operating system's telecommunication processing

> the CLOSOS concept of 'single big address space' will be adopted

> the CLOSOS recommendation that operating systems do not organise themselves 
according to the concepts of 'processes' and 'threads' will be adopted

> this project must support the cheapest and most accessible hardware - starting 
with the raspberry pi, the ESP32, and Arduino micro controllers

> this project must make the adoption of quantum computing hardware a very 
important priority

(see eiichi goto's 'quantum flux parametrons')

> happiness, levity, tenderness and intimacy are all constitutive social 
qualities which must be adopted and prioritised in this community

