---
title: "Simon on Why There Cannot Be a Proletarian Morality"
date: 2018-07-07T18:38:57+10:00
draft: false
---

I only reckon there can't be a *proletarian* morality, that is a moral
truth attached to some kind of objective section of society. I *do* think
that there is Moral Truth, and that capitalism suppresses it -- and not a
postmodernist! -- but, following Badiou, this Truth, while eternally true,
cannot be positively represented within knowledge representation except as
to point to the very limits of knowledge / representation. This is, moral
Truth *disrupts* our existing state of knowledge, for a mass assembly like
a Soviet posits within its very process the generic equality of all humans
within it, who draw out various concrete and specific versions of the
eternal Truth of generic equality in whatever political strategy is being
discussed within that soviet. So I definitely do think there exists moral
Truth -- I just don't think it can be attached to any a-priori subject
located within the field of capitalism's categories (such as labour, not
even 'labour-power' -- which I think refers not to capacity to labour, but
to the most generic capacity to act that all humans have, and thus has no
positive content in itself. It is capitalism itself which splits this
generic capacity into the delimited category of 'labour')
So if there is a human essence, it is simply that all humans speak and
therefore are equal in terms of their participation in the collective
symbolic (sum total of language). Equal not in any positive sense however -
equal capacity to speak, equal position within language, equal personal
positions or opinions -- it is purely a *generic *equality, that is pure
simple identity: The essence of humans is that they speak, and as speaking
beings are exactly identical to each other in this completely generic
capacity. As such moral *truth *can only be something that is produced on
the basis of this, and doesn't pre-exist it as some kind of essence within
humans. As speaking beings we are generically identical to each other, and
thus equal (the same). When this is posited explicitly, in mass assembly
which challenges the existing state, we can thus *produce *various
knowledges / strategies of how to be faithful to this generic equality
revealed in mass assembly, but we cannot represent this truth directly -->
its truth is not in language, but in the way mass assembly (equality of
speaking beings directly activated in collective deliberation upon
politics, or the infinity of possible situations) *disrupts* our knowledge
/ representation of moral truth. Communism in this sense could be seen as
this raised to the level of constitutive principle: as a constant process
of mass assembly (direct democracy) constantly disrupting and debating
every fixed state of affairs (representation, language, sum total of the
knowledges that make up society). "collectively managing our alienation",
as I think the accelerationists put it..

Let me know what you think! I guess this badiouian idea of morality
overcomes the one-sidedness of Aristotle (virtue ethics, immanence of
morality) and Plato / Kant (moral universality, as an ideal we constantly
strive to reach but cannot directly grasp / represent). It also
resurrections the idea of moral Truth, while fully accepted the
post-structuralist critique of attempting to directly identify Truth (or
the ultimate ground of all knowledge / concepts) with knowledge itself
(language). Hence the post-structuralist critique of a 'proletarian
morality' stands, while moral universality (truth) is still defended!
