---
title: "On the Jewish Question Video Transciption"
date: 2019-05-25T23:13:25+10:00
draft: false
---

Hey comrades.

I want to talk about another piece of text from early Marx today, and it's 
called On the Jewish Question.

And it's kind of a criticism of a Young Hegelian called Bruno Bauer. And it's a 
little bit anti-semitic, and I think the most anti-semitic stuff is in section 
two, or chapter two of it, when Marx basically says "the spirit of private 
property is due to Judaism", and I think that second section was added in so 
that he could get it published in some -- so he could look sufficiently racist 
in order to save face in German society.

But in any case we can read On the Jewish Question besides its anti-semitism or 
despite its anti-semitism. And this where Marx talks about the rigid separation 
that occurs between the political sphere and the "home life" or the "empirical 
sphere" of human life. And so Bruno Bauer says that we can't "make Jews 
liberated or citizens in Germany until we destroy the bourgeois state or destroy 
the Christian state" because at the moment only Christians can be liberated 
under a Christian state and even Christians are slaves under the Christian state 
and so on and so forth.

But Marx says it's possible to expunge the state out of any kind of religious -- 
we can separate the church and the state but that's still allows religion to 
happen anyway. And people still remain alienated despite how politically 
liberated they might be, because the liberation that you're giving someone under 
the bourgeois state, or the liberal democratic state, is only political 
liberation.

So religion can even more perfect under a liberal democratic state because it no 
longer has to have any kind of disgusting muck -- it doesn't have to make any 
practical decisions anymore, it can kind of just move into the realm of theory 
and move into the realm of pure empirical life and preach people pretty 
nothings, because it doesn't have to compromise anymore, it doesn't have to make 
any kind of real practical interventions in people's everyday lives anymore.

So if you think about it, the liberal democratic state is even MORE the 
perfection of religion, Marx says. So ultimately Marx says in order to liberate 
ourselves we need to reabsorb the abstract citizenship of the political state 
back into our empirical lives. We need to get rid of this rigid separation 
between the political person and the economic person.

Or the political person and the private person. Because this is alienating us. 
It's alienating us in a dual sense. (1) You're split down the middle between the 
liberated self and the self that's in "a war against all", like the Hobbesian 
state of nature, that's the content, the civil part of our lives, which is in 
civil society. But also in civil society we're alienated; (2) because in civil 
society we don't have a true communal existence anymore, and this is our REAL 
existence.

So Marx develops a little bit of the beginnings of his historical materialism 
here by saying that the true existence of people's lives is in civil society and 
political society at the moment, or the political realm, the realm of the state 
just merely represents or was revolutionised out of the revolution that happened 
in civil society. But it was  revolution that stopped and didn't go any further.

So Marx is still a liberal democrat here and he he's not really a communist yet 
because he doesn't point to how we can reabsorb the communal abstract part of 
our lives back into our "contentful" empirical lives anymore.

That's what happens later in his introduction to his Critique of Hegel's 
Philosophy of Right.

Alright comrades, I hope you enjoy this video, I'll see you tomorrow.
