---
title: "Why I Am Leaving YouTube"
date: 2018-06-13T13:15:08Z
draft: false
---

# How YouTube Appears, _Prima Facie_

YouTube is a website run and owned by 
Google, one of the largest, wealthiest, 
and most powerful multi-national 
corporations in the whole world. YouTube 
allows anyone with access to the website 
the ability to watch any video that 
exists in their catalogue, provided your 
country permits you to access YouTube's 
entire catalogue. YouTube seems like a 
wonderful service because for the most 
part, it is free to use, provided you 
watch the advertisements that usually 
appear on videos. You are able to learn 
mathematics, watch original short films, 
receive advice on your hobbies, have 
commodities you want to buy reviewed, and 
more. It seems like a powerful tool for 
transmitting and receiving information in 
an apparently open and democratic manner. 
Anyone is allowed to upload a video at 
any time, at no restriction of file size, 
or video length.

## A Closer Look: The Dangers of YouTube
While YouTube seems at first glance to be 
a wonderful and positive tool for 
disseminating information, it is in fact 
the complete opposite. YouTube is a 
terrible thing to use, and participate 
in. Here are my reasons:

## Censorship
YouTube is governed by a system of mass 
censorship. In reality, you are only 
permitted to discuss certain topics on 
YouTube if you are to have your videos 
properly listed and accessible on the 
platform. Only certain types of topics 
are permitted to receive advertisement 
revenue, and if your video does not hit 
exactly the right tone that the 
centralised leadership of YouTube 
permits, then you will never be able to 
receive money for your work. For example, 
according to the YouTube rules, topics 
that are ''controversial'' cannot receive 
their video author money. Major YouTube 
channels have been automatically and 
irreversibly deleted because their 
computer Intellectual Property censorship 
mechanisms have the power to interpret 
and enforce the law on YouTube. You are 
at the mercy of the corporate executives 
and the automatic video display and 
censorship mechanisms when you use 
YouTube. This means YouTube is a 
tyrranical system with no room for user 
and author freedom,

## Surveillance
YouTube collects metadata from your 
browsing habits on the website, and from 
virtually everything that you do on your 
phone. On many phones, it is impossible 
to actually permnanently delete the 
YouTube program. You can only ''disable'' 
it. YouTube is watching what you say and 
view on other programs on your computer, 
and it may even be doing so after you 
''disable'' the program on your phone. I 
invite you to test to see what happens 
when you buy something on eBay, or 
discuss a certain topic on Facebook. You 
will immediately start seeing 
advertisements on YouTube related to that 
activity. YouTube is tracking your 
internet activity and is using it to 
build an enormous database which it can 
use to better manipulate you. It can even 
sell the data it has on you to political 
parties of which you do not approve, so 
that capitalism can better manipulate the 
political system under which you live. 
YouTube will only show you videos in its 
catalogue that are congruent with the 
metadata database it has on you. This is 
a form of immoral censorship. You should 
be able to search and access the entire 
catalogue. YouTube is an incredibly 
dangerous and immoral platform. No-one 
should have as much power over the world 
political system as YouTube has.

## Exploitation
YouTube is not a not-for-profit service. 
It is also not a cooperatively structured 
organisation. The governance structure of 
YouTube is extremely hierarchical, and 
exists for the sole purpose of making 
profit under capitalism. The real parties 
thar benefit from the advertisements that 
are placed on videos made by ordinary 
people are the massive capitalist firms 
that make the advertisements, and 
principally YouTube itself. The same goes 
for services like Patreon. When you give 
YouTube authors money on Patreon, you may 
think that you are helping them escape 
the burden of censorship and exploitative 
treadmill of capitalism, but you are not. 
Patreon profits off of the hard work that 
people do in order to deserve the 
following that they get on YouTube and 
Patreon. Patreon parasites off the 
donations that you give. Like the 
advertisements on YouTube, Patreon makes 
money by exploiting the hard work of 
artists, film-makers, musicians, hackers, 
engineers, comedians etc If you are 
someone whose career is making YouTube 
videos, you are being exploited and 
stolen from in the exact same way as you 
would be if you were working in a factory 
or a dead-end job. The corporate rulers 
of capitalism are making free money off 
your hard work. For this reason, YouTube 
is an immoral service. Everyone deserves 
the full value of their labour. YouTube 
does not give it to you.

# What I Am Doing About My Use of YouTube
So what can you do to escape the 
injustices of YouTube?

## Go On Strike
First of all, you can encourage people to 
build a general strike of YouTube 
authors, to disrupt the flow of profits 
to YouTube and all its capitalist crony 
friends. A general strike could go some 
way towards forcing concessions out of 
the people who rule over YouTube. But 
this option is limited because it would 
mean that Google would still remain in 
control of YouTube. Real, lasting change 
would require that control over YouTube 
be handed over to the masses of people 
who use and work for the YouTube system. 
If there was a YouTube general strike 
that went on long enough, this might be 
possible. YouTube could become so costly 
for Google to run that they would be 
forced to sell it, and we could run a 
campaign for a democratic non profit 
organisation to take over it.

## Leave The Platform
For the time being, I want control over 
my video journal, my vlog, right now. I 
am going to begin transistioning to leave 
the platform, and host the videos on my 
channel on my own virtual private server. 
You can use Peertube or Dtube to use free 
software to host your videos in a 
non-hierarchical, federated community of 
servers. I will not be using these 
platforms because I disapprove of video 
streaming. I think JavaScript and running 
invisible and uncheckable code on your 
computer is immoral. I will instead be 
hosting my YouTube videos using static 
HTML and thumbnail images. The benefit of 
this is that people will have able to 
have a complete copy of any and all the 
videos in my video journal. One of the 
terrible things about YouTube is that it 
discourages users from having their own 
copy of the videos that they like. It 
encourages an ''always online'' culture 
of computer use. You have to go to third 
party websites to download YouTube 
videos. Another example is their audio 
library database - that cannot be downloaded at once in its entirety.

# Conclusion
I encourage you to disrupt and leave the YouTube system. Hopefully I have been pursuasive. Workers of the world unite, you have nothing to lose but your chains.
